Refactor predefined tuning profiles into a modular assembly (#4828)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_applying-a-predefined-tuning-profile.adoc

Reviewer: Reviewer notes: we want users to run `foreman-installer --tuning $profile`. Then since `custom-hiera.yaml` can undo some tuning options we provide. Because of that we're steering them away from having values in `custom-hiera.yaml`. This is a manual process we can't really automate so it's a manual procedure.

If the user doesn't use `custom-hiera.yaml` (ideal case) then the whole procedure really is just applying the tuning profile: `foreman-installer --tuning $profile`.

Author: We could add a note phrased like a warning to guides/common/modules/con_how-predefined-tuning-profiles-apply.adoc, explaining that this is not the preferred way to manage the server because <reason>. Would that help? And if so, what exactly is the reason?

Reviewer: Zooming out, what we really wanted was something that automatically tunes the system based on the instance size. That was hard so we settled on the middle ground: we provide a table of sizes that we guess approximates common uses. Then the admin chooses that and a matching tuning. That is the happy path.

A further complexity: before we had tuning profiles there were users who applied tuning using `custom-hiera.yaml`. That can override the tuning profiles. Technically `custom-hiera.yaml` is an unsupported solution, but common so to mitigate that we provided instructions on how to prune some options from `custom-hiera.yaml`.

Zooming back in, that means what I'd expect is:

* A table of sizes so the admin knows which tuning profile to use (`guides/common/modules/ref_predefined-tuning-profiles.adoc`)
* Instructions to apply that tuning profile (`foreman-installer --tuning $profile`)
* If you have applied `custom-hiera.yaml` then you should prune entries.

For the pruning part you need to understand how we apply tuning (`guides/common/modules/con_how-predefined-tuning-profiles-apply.adoc`) and a procedure to drop entries (most of `guides/common/modules/proc_applying-a-predefined-tuning-profile.adoc`).

Is the pruning part something you'd put in an appendix?

Author: This is the trouble with features that are "unsupported but allowed": If we want to provide the necessary instructions, we should provide them in a place where users will be looking for them. In this case, it's documentation on tuning profiles.

Splitting the custom-hiera.yaml part into an appendix is doable, but would require cross-linking and jumping between sections; users who don't use custom Hiera config would still have their reading disrupted by the cross-link, and users who do use Hiera config would not get the hint that it's unsupported just because it's in an appendix.

In order to keep related information together and to avoid disrupting user workflows, I'd still prefer to keep everything together. If it's desirable to discourage users from using custom-hiera.yaml, then we should IMO either say so explicitly (for example through an admonition) or declare it unsupported and remove it from the docs entirely.

Reviewer: We've largely avoided this topic because with foremanctl the whole `custom-hiera.yaml` concept isn't really a thing anymore. With that in mind I've not pushed for a complete restructure of this but thought it was useful to at least share the background how we got where we are today. And it worked, because I could better review that 1 sentence.

So with that in mind, I think this is probably good enough but I'll try to give it a full read through before the end of the day.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="applying-a-predefined-tuning-profile_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="applying-a-predefined-tuning-profile"]
```

= Applying a predefined tuning profile

[role="_abstract"]
Run `{foreman-installer}` with the `--tuning` option to apply a profile.

> Choosing the right tuning profile helps your {ProjectServer} utilize its CPU cores and memory better.

Author: ```suggestion
Choosing the right tuning profile helps your {ProjectServer} use its CPU cores and memory better.
```

> Choosing the right tuning profile helps you set up {ProjectServer} with the optimal number of CPU cores and memory allocation for your deployment.

Reviewer: Following up from https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/4828#discussion_r3258624593 (and a few days of thinking) we really wanted it the other way around: the system adjusts to your system size (that you determined during planning). We couldn't come up with a good implementation so came up with some numbers that we think may work well for certain sizes.

This is a mediocre sentence, but I wonder if this is a better description.
```suggestion
Choosing the right tuning profile helps your {ProjectServer} utilize its CPU cores and memory better.
```

[NOTE]
====

> You cannot use predefined tuning profiles on {SmartProxies}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You cannot use predefined tuning profiles on {SmartProxyServers}.
```

====

.Procedure
. Optional: If you use a `custom-hiera.yaml` file on your {ProjectServer}, back it up:
+
----
# cp /etc/foreman-installer/custom-hiera.yaml \

> /etc/foreman-installer/custom-hiera.original

Reviewer: I'd suggest to keep the same file extension so your editor can still recognize it and apply the correct syntax highlighting
```suggestion
/etc/foreman-installer/custom-hiera.original.yaml
```

----
+
This ensures you can restore the `custom-hiera.yaml` file to its original state if it becomes corrupted.

> . If you use a `custom-hiera.yaml` file on your {ProjectServer}, ensure the settings in `custom-hiera.yaml` do not override the settings in the default tuning profile and your chosen predefined tuning profile:

Reviewer 3: The first step being optional and the second one not being optional makes it confusing.

Strictly speaking, conditional steps are not optional, but conditional, so the "optional" should not apply here. (see Indicating optional and conditional steps in IBM Style).

I'm tempted to create a single conditional, but that would need some restructuring of the substeps. Mockup:

```
.  If you use a `custom-hiera.yaml` file on your {ProjectServer}, perform the following steps:
.. Back up your `custom-hiera.yaml` file so you can restore it if the file becomes corrupted.
.. Remove any settings from your `custom-hiera.yaml` that duplicate the settings of the default tuning profile in `/usr/share/foreman-installer/config/foreman.hiera/tuning/common.yaml`.
```

I think this contains everything that needs to be said, no? We don't actually need sub-substeps.

Author: The thing is that backing up custom-hiera.yaml is both conditional and optional 🫠

Author: And then the second step (to ensure there are no duplicated settings) is conditional and required.

Reviewer 3: Ah, well that makes sense, but is not very obvious. But I think it works better with the proposed structure:

```
.  If you use a `custom-hiera.yaml` file on your {ProjectServer}, perform the following steps:
.. Optional: Back up your `custom-hiera.yaml` file so you can restore it if the file becomes corrupted.
.. Remove any settings from your `custom-hiera.yaml` that duplicate the settings of the default tuning profile in `/usr/share/foreman-installer/config/foreman.hiera/tuning/common.yaml`.
```

Author: Love it, thanks, applied.

.. Review the definitions of the default tuning profile in `/usr/share/foreman-installer/config/foreman.hiera/tuning/common.yaml` and the tuning profile that you want to apply in `/usr/share/foreman-installer/config/foreman.hiera/tuning/sizes/`.
.. Compare the configuration entries against the entries in your `/etc/foreman-installer/custom-hiera.yaml` file.
.. Remove any duplicated configuration settings that you find in `custom-hiera.yaml`.
. Enter the `{foreman-installer}` command with the `--tuning` option for the profile that you want to apply.
For example, you can apply the medium tuning profile settings:
+
[options="nowrap" subs="attributes"]
----

> # {foreman-installer} --tuning medium

Reviewer: Should we make it clear that `medium` is a value provided by the user?
```suggestion
# {foreman-installer} --tuning _medium_
```

Author: I can mark it as a replaceable, but will also need to change the lead-in sentence a bit.
